In this lecture, you'll learn about some global security best practices back in the switch security
section, we covered about best practices for part level or interface level security.
This lecture, we're going to cover best practices for some security commands that we should enter and
global configuration.
And this is on Bouvard on our switches.
First thing, Ecover is login and exec Bonners messages can be displayed in the command line before
and or after an administrator logs into the iOS device.
And this is most commonly used to display security warnings to for before they log in.
That is the login bonnar to configure the global config.
You see biner login and then you put any delimiter such as quotes.
Also most of its special characters on the top line you can use here, then the you then hit enter and
then we will give you feedback seeing and your text message and with the character the same dilemma
that you used.
So because we said Bonnar login and in double quotes hit enter will get that feedback.
We then type in the message that we want to show, for our example, authorized users only.
We then hit the double quotes again and Olbrich is the command.
Now, the next time the user goes to log in before Venera password, they will see the warning message.
You can also configure a message the administrators will see just after they log in.
That is the exact Bonnar for that.
You see Bonnar.
Exactly.
So before it was Bonnen, log in and I would do BONNAR Exactly.
Our dillema are again.
Again, in the example we're using the double quotes.
It will tell us to enter the text message after we hit enter there.
In our example we're seeing please log immediately.
If you're not an authorized administrator, then hit the double quotes again and it will break his back
the command again.
Then you see the effect of this tool.
When a user and administrator goes to telnet into Orvis switch before it prompts them for her password,
it gives them the login Bonheur, which was authorized users only for our example.
Then it will prompt them for a password.
They enter a password.
Then as soon as we've logged, then we'll get the exact Bonnar, which was please.
Well, go immediately if you're not an authorized administrator, for our example.
So those are optional.
If you want, you can configure login banner.
If you want, you could just do an exact Bonnar and also if you wanted, you could move in together.
So that's our log in on exec BONNERS.
Next thing, Ecover as a best practice is disabling on used services by disabling unused services.
That reduces the attack surface.
For example, say that you've got to keep running.
On the right are on.
A hacker discovers a new exploit.
They can use the attacks.
HTP on answer screwdriver's.
Well, if you're not running HTP, you're not susceptible to that attack.
Another benefit that you get is it reduces the load on our switch.
If it's not running the service, then it doesn't have to give CPU cycles to do that.
So best practice is to disable all of your unused services.
I just mentioned about HTP there used that as an example HGP asked to secure HTP is often used if you're
using I guey a graphical user interface tool to manage that or switch.
But HTP really there's never any need to have any.
It's the best practice is to to disable HTP.
Another example of a service you might want to disable is CDPR.
Now, in most normal environments, you will leave CDPR running the Cisco Discovery protocol because
it's really useful if you're on a switch and you want to see what neighbors are connected to, that
IP addresses are, it's very handy.
Have CDP enabled, but this can be seen as a security issue as well.
Maybe you don't want people to be able to map the network using CDPR SO and highly secure environments
such as banks, it's pretty normal to disable CDPR.
So the examples we do for the clients we would do for our examples to disable HTP.
It would be new IP http server that will disable HTP, but it will leave GPS running.
And if you wanted to disable CDPR globally, the global config is no CDPR run.
OK, the last thing to cover here is time synchronization, all of the servers and infrastructure devices
in your network should be synchronized to the same time.
So not just your voters in your switches.
Also, any firewalls, anything like that.
You've got all of your servers as well.
Everything should be running at the same time that it's in troubleshooting because now all of your logs
will report the correct time the events actually occurred.
In real world, you're going to probably run into this where you're doing some troubleshooting and you
look at the log and the time has not been set on that device.
And the real time is 2nd of January, 2018.
But the device thinks that it's first of February 1984 and then of figured out when things actually
happened is very annoying.
So it's much easier to troubleshoot if all of your devices have got the correct time on them.
Another big reason that you want them has the correct time is that some security features actually require
this.
For example, Kerberos authentication on digital certificates.
If you're using Kerberos to log into active directory, the client and the server, the time must not
be more than five minutes by default.
If the time difference is more than five minutes, then authentication is going to feel.
It's to stop people trying to change your username and password again if sniffed it, pretending to
be you.
Everyone there was digital certificates can be used for authentication as well.
Digital certificates have got a valid timeline on saved from 2015 to 2020.
Well, if your writer thinks that it's 1984, it will see it as an invalid digital certificate and it's
not going to work for all those reasons.
You definitely want to use time synchronization in your environment.
The protocol that is used for this is and keep the network time protocol.
So you want all of your servers, all of your infrastructure devices to be synchronized with an A.P.
server.
The other thing they can use is their own internal clock.
But if you forget to set it, it can be way out.
And even if you do it a router, it's built to be or are not to be an excellent timekeeper and the clock
will drift over time.
So you want it to be synchronized with an A.P. server, which, you know, has got the exact correct
time on there.
A Cisco can function as Bov, an A.P. server and or a client.
Typically, you're going to have it configured as an A.P. client and you'll use some kind of external
device, which, you know, it's got a really good clock as your A.P. server.
Your configuration for Antep, first off, set the time zone on the Rohter year, if you've got a road
in New York, you'll set it for The New York Times.
And if you've got a rider in Sydney, you've set it for Sydney Time Zone.
And our example here, the local time is pitched in the US, which is eight hours behind UTC.
So we say, OK, time zone and then minus eight, it's eight hours behind UTC.
Then we can figure out where the A.P. server is.
Now, you know how I said the Cisco virus can be either an A.P. server or an A.P. client?
This can trip you up to configure it as an A.P. client.
The command is A.P. server.
She's the A.P. server.
And then you see the IP address that the server is at to configure it as an A.P. server.
The command is just a. m..
So usually we'll have it configured as an A.P. client with A.P. server command.
We don't usually use that as an A.M. Once that has done, we can do a sure clock to check that is showing
the correct time.
Also to verify we can do our show, A.P. status, and we want to see that the clock is synchronized.
Now, something with this for real world environments when you configure the A.P. server, but ours
is not just buying immediately changes time because that could cause some issues with internal processes.
It will do it slowly over a bit of time.
It's called drifting towards the A.P. server so it can take up to around five minutes before it is actually
showing the correct time.
So when you're working in the real world and you can figure your switch to use an A.P. server, don't
check the clock immediately.
It's not going to be ready yet.
Go make yourself a cup of coffee.
Come back and check the clock then, and you should see that it's got the correct time on there.
OK, so that was some of our global security.
Best practices in the next lecture will configure it.
The lab.